NGE project description (#4)
OpenRailAssociation/annual-report: 2024/0740-nge.md

NGE, initially developed internally at SBB, became open source in 2024. Similarly, the SNCF’s [Open Source Railway Designer (OSRD)](https://osrd.fr/en/) focuses on microscopic medium and short-term timetabling, capacity analysis, and simulation. In 2024, a productive collaboration began between the two development teams. This collaboration led to contributions from the OSRD team to the NGE project. In return, the OSRD team integrated NGE components into their software. Such a fruitful collaboration would have been unlikely without the OpenRail Association. In an independent project, an open source converter was developed to export data from NGE into timetables for the entire service day in different formats, such as GTFS static or [MATSim](https://matsim.org/) transit schedules.

> To build a broad community and develop its full potential, the Netzgrafik-Editor needs additional user within transport companies, public administrations, and educational institutions. For timetable planners or students in transport planning, opening the source code is insufficient. To bridge the gap between software developers and end-users, the application was made [freely accessible](https://nge.flatland.cloud) online in 2024 to ensure that it reaches a broader audience. Open-source success relies not just on code availability but also on user engagement and accessibility.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To build a broad community and develop its full potential, the Netzgrafik-Editor needs additional users within transport companies, public administrations, and educational institutions. For timetable planners or students in transport planning, opening the source code is insufficient. To bridge the gap between software developers and end-users, the application was made [freely accessible](https://nge.flatland.cloud) online in 2024 to ensure that it reaches a broader audience. Open-source success relies not just on code availability but also on user engagement and accessibility.
```

> In 2025, the focus is strengthening the community to attract more users and active developerson developing functionalities. The [roadmap](https://github.com/SchweizerischeBundesbahnen/netzgrafik-editor-frontend/blob/main/ROADMAP.md) outlines the strategic goals to improve the Netzgrafik-Editor's business value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In 2025, the focus is strengthening the community to attract more users and active developers on developing functionalities. The [roadmap](https://github.com/SchweizerischeBundesbahnen/netzgrafik-editor-frontend/blob/main/ROADMAP.md) outlines the strategic goals to improve the Netzgrafik-Editor's business value.
```

### Netzgrafik-Editor

> **Netzgrafik-Editor (NGE) is a mature tool used in long-term planning for creating and analyzing regular-interval timetables at a macroscopic level of detail. It's versatile for timetable planning in various domains. Features include interactive editing, graphic timetables, train run editing, and analysis.**  

Reviewer 2: Which are the "various domains"?

Author: "modes of transport" fits better than domains.

> NGE is used daily by Swiss Federal Railways (SBB) planners for developing macroscopic long-term timetable concepts. It enables quick creation of new ideas as variants, their analysis, and decision-making on their feasibility. NGE offers various functions to enhance the efficiency and optimization of traffic in a network.  

Reviewer 2: I would ever name the "various functions" or just say it is used to enhance efficiency and optimization.

Author: I have adjusted the sentence to: NGE offers the user functionality to enhance the efficiency and optimization of traffic in a network

Based on the network and the timetables, the software provides insights into connection and transfer times. This facilitates optimization and efficiency improvement in a transport system. Additionally, infrastructure requirements can be estimated, aiding in infrastructure planning and decision-making.

NGE is a web-based tool with a [frontend](https://github.com/SchweizerischeBundesbahnen/netzgrafik-editor-frontend) developed using [SBB open source Angular components](https://github.com/sbb-design-systems/sbb-angular), providing an interactive graphical interface accessible through a web browser. Much of the logic is implemented in TypeScript on the frontend to ensure performance and interactivity with low latency and maximum responsiveness. The [backend](https://github.com/SchweizerischeBundesbahnen/netzgrafik-editor-backend/), implemented with the Spring Framework and Spring Boot mainly persists the data.

> NGE, initially developed internal at SBB, became open source in 2024. Similarly, the SNCF’s [Open Source Railway Designer (OSRD)](https://osrd.fr/en/) focuses on microscopic medium and short-term timetabling, capacity analysis, and simulation. In 2024, a productive collaboration began between the two development teams. This collaboration led to contributions from the OSRD team to the NGE project. In return, the OSRD team integrated NGE components into their software. Such a fruitful collaboration would have been unlikely without the OpenRail Association. In an independent project, an open source converter was developed to export data from NGE into timetables for the entire service day in different formats, such as GTFS static or [MATSim](https://matsim.org/) transit schedules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NGE, initially developed internally at SBB, became open source in 2024. Similarly, the SNCF’s [Open Source Railway Designer (OSRD)](https://osrd.fr/en/) focuses on microscopic medium and short-term timetabling, capacity analysis, and simulation. In 2024, a productive collaboration began between the two development teams. This collaboration led to contributions from the OSRD team to the NGE project. In return, the OSRD team integrated NGE components into their software. Such a fruitful collaboration would have been unlikely without the OpenRail Association. In an independent project, an open source converter was developed to export data from NGE into timetables for the entire service day in different formats, such as GTFS static or [MATSim](https://matsim.org/) transit schedules.
```

> To build a broad community and develop its full potential, the Netzgrafik-Editor needs additional user groups within transport companies, public administrations, and educational institutions. For timetable planners or students in transport planning, opening the source code is insufficient. To bridge the gap between software developers and end-users, the application was made [freely accessible](https://nge.flatland.cloud) online in 2024 to ensure that it reaches a broader audience. Open-source success relies not just on code availability but also on user engagement and accessibility.

Reviewer 2: Maybe just "users" not "user groups" because I don't think the traditional users groups as organizational form (e.g. Linux User Group) are meant here.

Author: OK!

> In 2025, the focus is strengthening the community to attract more users and active developerson developing functionalities along the 

Reviewer 2: I would seperate attracting developers and working on the roadmap to not make the impression that new developers can't bring their own ideas.

Author: I separated the two concerns.

[roadmap](https://github.com/SchweizerischeBundesbahnen/netzgrafik-editor-frontend/blob/main/ROADMAP.md).

Further information:
- [Netzgrafik-Editor Frontend on GitHub](https://github.com/SchweizerischeBundesbahnen/netzgrafik-editor-frontend)
- [Netzgrafik-Editor Backend on GitHub](https://github.com/SchweizerischeBundesbahnen/netzgrafik-editor-backend/)
- [Netzgrafik-Editor Converter on GitHub](https://github.com/SchweizerischeBundesbahnen/netzgrafik-editor-converter)

> - [Online Application](https://nge.flatland.cloud) operated in the cloud of the [Flatland Association](https://www.flatland-association.org/home)

Reviewer 2: Application sounds a bit like applying for something. Maybe something like this:

```suggestion
- [Online Demo Instance](https://nge.flatland.cloud) operated in the cloud of the [Flatland Association](https://www.flatland-association.org/home)
```
